This directory contains the necessary Python scripts to execute a Genesis Run on Amazon Web Services (AWS). 

Requirements:

**Python**

[paramiko](https://github.com/paramiko/paramiko)

[Boto](http://aws.amazon.com/sdkforpython/)

[Jinja2](http://jinja.pocoo.org/docs/)

**Files**

The main Python script, GenesisAWS.py requires adherence to the following conventions. In all cases, the current
directory, . , is PATH/genesis_aws where PATH is the directory containing the genesis_aws directory. 

*./conf* may optionally contain a file called *notifications.conf* with the following content, modified with the correct 
sender/recipient information. If it does not, the  Genesis applicaition will not send any notifications upon completion.

    sendNotifications=true
    sender{
       username="sender@email.com"
       password="SENDER_PASSWORD"
       smtp="SENDER_SMTP"
       port="SENDER_PORT"
       auth="true"
       "starttlsEnable"="true"
    }
    recipients=["recipient@email.com"]
    
 *./conf* may optionally contain a file called *aws.conf* with the following content, modified with the correct AWS
 AccessKeyId, AWS AccessKeySecret
 
    AccessKeyId="AKIAJS7G2VCLLAYTOYRA"
    AccessKeySecret="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"
 
    
*./lib* must contain the *genesis.jar* file.

**AMI**
It is recommended to use one of the default Amazon Machine Images (AMIs) and to preinstall the Oracle JDK, the 
Genesis applicaition jar file, and the precomputed pairwise similarity score serialized file. This can be accomplished by
starting a clean AMI instance, installing the Oracle JDK, and uploading the appropriate Genesis jar file and serialized
pairwise similarity file. The pairwise similarity file can be generated by locally running the Genesis application and
selecting the "HPO Term Pairwise Similarity Score Serialization" option. This make take several hours to complete. 
Then generate an AMI from that instance.

[Installing Oracle JDK](http://fedorasolved.org/Members/zcat/using-sun-java-instead-of-openjdk)

[Oracle JDK Download](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html)

**Security Groups**
The instances generated by the GenesisAWS script will all be on the specified Amazon Security Group. This group must
enable inbound TCP access on ports 2552-2555 as they are used by the Genesis Akka applications. Note that the **default
security group does NOT support this**. 